[Autogenerated] Hi there.
Welcome this module and are designing Ed West.
Hybrid networks costs my name's Mike Brown,
But in this module,
we're gonna be looking at using B G p to provide dynamic ruin in this module.
We're gonna start off by trying to answer the question.
What is bi g P where they're gonna move on to this guy's using B g p
with direct connect on site site deep in connections.
Before going for a quick demonstration, we'll be working with B G P in Head West.
Let's start off then, by trying.
Answer the question.
What is B G P?
Well, first things first.
B g p stands for the board to get with protocol body Gary
Protocol is an example of an exterior Gary Protocol and Ruin
Xterra get the protocols are designed to swap,
ruin and reach a billy.
Information between autonomous systems on Ultima System is a
collection of I P networks or prefixes, usually under one admission control.
Inside, not on the system.
We will use interior, get re protocols, protocols like your SPF Andi I,
Joppy to swat route information and keep internal ruin tables up.
Today,
this collective internal rulers on their I p
prefixes form autonomous assistance.
The body get a protocol is considered a path vector protocol interior.
Get re protocols usually have some form of metric,
like a hot count value that's divided from the bandwidth on
your networks that they can share between rulers so that
rules commit their ruin decisions.
A change in bandmates somewhere might cause you internally.
Brewers drop dead their ruin tables path vector protocols like B G P.
A.
Controlled by the administrator.
The administrator sets attributes and sets ruin policies.
It's changes to these policies by the administrators.
The influence of the incisions.
One of the fundamental components of B G P networks are autonomous systems.
Autonomous systems are represented by number
historically has been a 16 bit number,
but today there's a 32 big numbering scheme as well.
There's lots of categories of autonomous system.
Number two of those categories are public out on the system
numbers on private autonomous system numbers.
You have to register for public ___ numbers just like you
have to register for public I P addresses.
If you can register for a public ___ number,
you can use that number to replicate your autonomous systems on the Internet,
Private asked numbers.
I like private appearances.
They're designed for.
Internal use ought to be shared with neighbors off a private collections.
They're not to be used for public advertisement on the Internet.
The 16 bit private numbers range from 65,512.
65,005 in the 34 If you're connecting to AWS, I'm using B G P.
For that,
I'm a crew in that you can use Eva public or private numbers for
your connection with that connections of sight,
sight, VPN or direct connect, as well as representing your Thomas system.
Artemus system numbers have also used as part of the
neighbor relationship between bdp rears.
In order to swap route information to be GP, rulers must peel of each other.
They must form a neighbor relationship.
Part of four minutes named Relationship is dropping autonomous sister numbers.
These numbers then allows to identify our neighbors
from communicating them later on.
In this example,
we've got 80 West on the left on glove Mannix on the right and headed west.
We got VPC using the 192 once exact address space.
I mean, God, Mannix.
We got address space of 10 000 In order to swap fruit information,
the two rulers will have to form appear in relation.
To recover, they will have to become neighbors.
As part of that pain relationship, they will stop autonomous sister numbers.
Once the relationship is established, they will share prefixes.
The Globe Money True event would advertise a prefix 10
000 slash A on AWS would advertise.
The VP sees address space to global manic No, it sounds.
Advertisement includes the prefix is being advertised
on the autonomous system number.
In this example,
we still have a dress on her left hand glove Mannix on the right.
But we also have another company and as well as
farming a B G p relation very digress.
Globe Mannix has appeared with another company as well,
and it's dropping ruin information with that company.
That's part this relationship.
Another company will advertise its prefixes to glove Mannix.
In turn, globe magnates can advertise the prefixes from another company.
AWS.
Again.
Take a look at the prefix is an autonomous numbers in this advertisement,
where advertising the 17 to 16 prefix.
But we've now include the full autonomous system path that way.
The B g P rulers aws know exactly where this prefix came from.
On the autonomous systems that packets would have to
travel through to get to that network.
Let's complicate things a little bit.
Let's say that another company forms a BDP relationship with their de Bresse.
Now AWS will learn about prefix 17 to 16 in two different directions.
I guess the question is,
which path would address used when trying to send
traffic to the 17 to 16 00 network?
Well, in B g p, the shortest ___ path winds.
So in this example,
AWS would send traffic directly to another company to
get to that 17 to 16 address space.
Because that was not the shortest day of path that contains just one s number.
I'm not the two ___ numbers the glove Mannix advertised.
There's lots different ways that we can influence through decisions made by BTP.
In this example, we've got a dress on the left and Globe banks on the right.
This time club manager has a pair of rulers who are both appeared with AWS on.
Because these rumors come from the same autonomous system.
They're using the same autonomous sister number.
Another attribute we can use to influence through
incisions is called the Morgue Exit.
Discriminate.
This is a number that could be attached to the prefix
is that we have a ties in this case, the address.
Here we've got one Drew advertising a med of 10 on the
second rule of advertising in med of 20.
So again, the question is,
which path would aid Wes use to get that 10 address space?
Well, in this example, the lowest Met value wins.
So look at this down.
Come again because the top is send the med value of 10 on the
room at the bottom and send a med value of 20.
The path through the roof of the top to get to Network 10 would be the
preferred path we've discussed to Path attributes.
Surf are autonomous sister number on multi exit.
Discriminate here for the art of the System number
show his path wins for the med value.
The lower value wins.
BDP uses what's called its Best Path album.
The Best Path album is used to describe the best path to a given.
Prefects depend on your platform there's 10 plus
attributes that you can use for paths.
Election.
Some of these attributes affect local decisions on others. Influence the decisions on the B G p neighbors.